hello and welcome to movies in five
minutes or less
this is a recap of the 1986 action movie
top gun
starring tom cruise
warning spoilers ahead
ltp maverick mitchell and his radar
intercept officer ltj g nick goose
bradshaw our united states naval aviator
stationed aboard the uss enterprise
where they fly the f-14a tomcat
during an interception maverick gets
missile lock on one of the hostile
mig-28 aircraft while the other hostile
aircraft locks on mavericks wingmen
cougar
cougar is too shaken to land while
maverick dispatches the remaining mig-28
so maverick defying orders shepherds him
back to the carrier
despite his dislike for maverick's
recklessness cag stinger sends him and
goose to naval air station miramar to
attend top gun the naval fighter weapon
school
maverick aided by goose unsuccessfully
approaches a woman in a bar the day
before top gun premieres
maverick discovers the next day that she
is charlotte charlie blackwood a
civilian top gun instructor and
astrophysicist
after learning of maverick's inverted
maneuver with the mig-28 charlie becomes
interested in him
maverick defeats instructor lcdr rick
jester heatherly on his first training
hop but by flying recklessly he breaks a
major rule of engagement and is
reprimanded by chief instructor cdr mike
piper metcalfe
in private jester admits that he admires
maverick's abilities but is unsure
whether he would trust him as a combat
partner
the top student lt tom iceman kazansky
considers maverick's attitude foolish
and is flying dangerous as maverick's
tendency to abandon his team and pursue
reckless objectives makes him unsafe to
fly with
charlie opposes maverick's aggressive
tactics in class but she privately
admits to him that she admires his
flying and admitted it from her reports
to hide her feelings for him the two
begin a romantic relationship
during another training hop maverick
abandons his wingman hollywood to pursue
viper
viper admits that his flying abilities
impress him but maverick is defeated
when viper maneuvers maverick into a
position where his wingman jester can
shoot him down from behind demonstrating
the importance of teamwork over
individual prowess
mavericks flying is excellent but jester
tells him that he should never leave his
wingmen
in a later training engagement
maverick and iceman now direct
competitors for the top gun trophy
pursue an a4
because the time it takes for each
dogfight to end is factored into the
scoring for each flight in the course
maverick pressures iceman to end their
engagement with the a4 they're both
chasing so he can shoot it down himself
but iceman refuses
maverick and goose eject but goose is
killed when he collides with the
jettison aircraft canopy head-on despite
the fact that the board of inquiry finds
maverick not to be responsible for
goose's death he is overcome by guilt
and his flying ability deteriorates
charlie and others try to console him
but maverick is thinking about leaving
he seeks advice from viper who reveals
that he served on the uss oriskany with
maverick's father duke mitchell and was
present during the air battle that
resulted in mitchell's death
viper reveals classified information
that proves mitchell died heroically
despite official reports to the contrary
and tells maverick that he can succeed
if he can regain his self-confidence
maverick chooses to graduate though
iceman wins the top gun trophy
viper and jester summon the newly
graduated aviators to the graduation
party with orders to deploy
iceman hollywood and maverick are
ordered to return to the enterprise
immediately to deal with a crisis
situation involving the rescue of the ss
layton a disabled ship that has drifted
into hostile waters despite iceman's
reservations about maverick's mental
state maverick and merlin are assigned
as backup for f-14s flown by iceman and
hollywood
hollywood is shot down in the ensuing
hostile engagement with six mig-28
maverick is scrambled alone due to a
catapult failure and nearly retreats
after encountering circumstances similar
to those that killed goose
when maverick and iceman finally reunite
they are still outmanned but maverick
insists on giving man a wingman and
manages to shoot down three mig-28
shifting to offense iceman also kills
one forcing the other two to flee
iceman and maverick have a newfound
respect for each other after their
triumphant return to enterprise and
maverick throws goose's dog tags
overboard
offered any assignment he chooses
maverick decides to return to top gun as
an instructor
maverick and charlie reunite in a bar in
miramar
thanks for watching movies in 5 minutes
or less
don't forget to subscribe to our channel
till next time